"I have set the ball rolling to create two sets of 10 engorged colony-derived Culex quinquefasciatus mosquitoes, one set fed on virus-infected defibrinogenated goose blood, and one set fed on virus-infected defibrinogenated sheep blood. In both cases, the blood engorged mosquitoes will be incubated for 24 hours at 28C. The virus is a non-pathogenic arbovirus, but I will keep the identity secret until you finish testing. Half of each cohort (N=5) will be frozen without homogenization and the other half will be homogenized in 550 uL of PBS, of which 250 uL will be aliquotted and frozen for sending to the Biohub. Mosquitoes that don’t feed will be killed by freezing, and organized into 4 pools of approximately 25 mosquitoes (5-50 mosquitoes per pool). Two will be sent without homogenization, and two will be homogenized in 1 mL of BA1 culture media. From these, 500 uL aliquots will be frozen for shipping to the Biohub. [I think I can add a virus-infected mosquito to each  pool if you wish]. I am arranging for 12 field-collected mosquitoes (mix of bird and mammal blood meals) to be collected and sent to me for processing from Texas (mosquitoes are not yet biting in Colorado). Of these, I planned to process half with our method, and forward the other half to you unprocessed."

Note on a first look in IDseq, it seems like all Culex are goose fed and other spp like Aedes are sheep fed. I will confirm details on what they actually did with Nick

Here are the set of lab derived Culex quinquefasciatus samples they’ve provided (hom = homogenate; W = whole mosquito): MOS002-01a-hom through MOS002-05a-hom, MOS002-06a-W through MOS002-10a-W are all bloodfed and  MOS002-11a-hom and MOS002-12a-W are not bloodfed controls.
Very nice pattern with bloodmeal detectable, regardless of homogenization or whole insect…
Similar bloodfed samples for Aedes aegypti = MOS002-13a-hom & MOS002-14a-hom and MOS002-18a-W & MOS002-19a-W.
No non-bloodfed comparators for this set, but mammals & ovis (sheep) come up high on list of eukaryotic hits in IDseq for this set…

Less clear about bloodmeals for the following Anopheles gambiae samples: MOS002-48a-hom through MOS002-51a-hom are single bloodfed homogenates; MOS002-053a-W through MOS002-57a-W are single non-bloodfed samples; MOS002-58 & 60 are pools of 11 nonbloodfed homogenates; MOS002-59 & 61 are pools of 11 nonbloodfed whole insects.
